If you find any reason why you and someone are friends, you are not friends.
Soldiers are more loyal to their comrades (and willing to die for them) than to their country. Academics are more loyal to their peers than to truth.
My biggest problem with modernity may lie in the growing separation of the ethical and the legal.
People reveal much more about themselves while lying than when they tell the truth.
If we are the only animal with a sense of justice, it would clearly be because we also are about the only animal with a sense of cruelty.
Life’s beauty: the kindest act toward you in your life may come from an outsider not interested in reciprocation.
It is a great compliment for an honest person to be mistaken for a crook by a crook.
We are most motivated to help those who need us the least.
Supposedly, if you are uncompromising or intolerant with BS you lose friends. But you will also make friends, better friends.
To value a person, consider the difference between how impressive he or she was at the first encounter and the most recent one
Anything people do, write, or say to enhance their status beyond what they give others shows like a mark on their foreheads, visible to others but not to them.
Meditation is a way to be narcissistic without hurting anyone.
Every angel is an asshole somewhere.
Every asshole is an angel somewhere.
True humility is when you can surprise yourself more than others; the rest is either shyness or good marketing.
The difference between the politician and the philosopher is that, in a debate, the politician doesn’t try to convince the other side, only the audience.
We find it to be in extremely bad taste for individuals to boast of their accomplishments; but when countries do so we call it “national pride.”
Another marker for charlatans: they don’t voice opinions that can get them in trouble.
You can only convince people who think they can benefit from being convinced.
Greatness starts with the replacement of hatred with polite disdain.
Never call someone an imbecile (or a fucking idiot) unless he causes harm to others/system; there must be a moral dimension to insults.
Trust people who make a living lying down or standing up more than those who do so sitting down.
Never take advice from a salesman, or any advice that benefits the advice giver.
Your duty is to scream those truths that one should shout but that are merely whispered.
The tragedy of virtue is that the more obvious, boring, unoriginal, and sermonizing the proverb, the harder it is to implement.
It is quite a predicament to be both evil and risk-averse.
Even the cheapest misers can be generous with advice.
If you lie to me, keep lying; don’t hurt me by suddenly telling the truth.
It is easy for others, but not for you, to detect the asymmetry between what you gain and what you give by doing, writing, or saying.
Don’t trust a man who needs an income—except if it is minimum wage.
You may outlive your strength, never your wisdom.
Something shoddy: citizenship of convenience, holding the passport of a country for ease of travel or tax treatment without committing to its community.
Weak men act to satisfy their needs, stronger men their duties.
Any action one takes with the aim of winning an award, any award, corrupts to the core.
Religions and ethics have evolved from promising heaven if you do good, to promising heaven while you do good, to making you promise to do good.
For social mobility to work, it needs to be a two-way highway, with a large number of pre-rich and an almost as large one of post-rich.
Avoid calling heroes those who had no other choice.
There are those who will thank you for what you gave them and others who will blame you for what you did not give them.
Envy, like thirst for revenge, is the wicked person’s version of our natural sense of injustice.
Ethical man accords his profession to his beliefs, instead of according his beliefs to his profession. This has been rarer and rarer since the Middle Ages.
A prostitute who sells her body (temporarily) is vastly more honorable than someone who sells his opinion for promotion or job tenure.
I trust everyone except those who tell me they are trustworthy.
People often need to suspend their self-promotion, and have someone in their lives they do not need to impress. This explains dog ownership.
Trust those who are greedy for money a thousand times more than those who are greedy for credentials.
Pure generosity is when you help the ingrate. Every other form is selfserving.
I wonder if crooks can conceive that honest people can be shrewder than they.
Trust those who trust you and distrust those who are suspicious of others.
In Proust there is a character, Morel, who demonizes Nissim Bernard, a Jew who lent him money, and becomes anti-Semitic just so he can escape the feeling of gratitude.
Multiplicative generosity: limit your generosity to those who, in turn, given the circumstances, would be equally generous toward others.
Promising someone good luck as a reward for good deeds sounds like a bribe—perhaps the remnant of an archaic, pre-deontic pre-classical morality.
Virtue is when the income you wish to show the tax agency exceeds what you wish to show your neighbor.
The difference between magnificence and arrogance is in what one does when nobody is looking.
Accept the rationality of time, never its fairness and morality.
The nation-state: apartheid without political incorrectness.
In a crowd of a hundred, 50 percent of the wealth, 90 percent of the imagination, and 100 percent of the intellectual courage will reside in a single person—not necessarily the same one.
The bottom half has typically been screwed by the middle class. That’s the entire story of Rome.
Just as dyed hair makes older men less attractive, it is what you do to hide your weaknesses that makes them repugnant.
Never buy a product that the owner of the company that makes it doesn’t use, or, in the case of, say, medication, wouldn’t contingently use.
For soldiers, we use the term “mercenary,” but we absolve employees of responsibility with “everybody needs to make a living.”
I am rather fed up with those who tell me to be nice and “try to convince” charlatans. The FBI didn’t “try to convince” the Mafia to abandon its activities.
English does not distinguish between arrogant-up (irreverence toward the temporarily powerful) and arrogant-down (directed at the small guy).
Distributive justice isn’t taking from a risk taker who earned honorably, it is keeping his probability of losing back his fortune very high.
Someone from your social class who becomes poor affects you more than thousands of starving ones outside of it.
It takes a lot of skills to be virtuous without being boring.
