There are designations, like "economist", "prostitute", or "consultant", for which additional characterization doesn't add information.
A mathematician starts with a problem and creates a solution; a consultant starts by offering a “solution” and creates a problem
Financial inequalities are ephemeral, one crash away from reallocation; inequalities of status are there to stay.
What they call “risk” I call opportunity; but what they call “low risk” opportunity I call sucker problem.
If you detect a repressed smile on the salesperson’s face, you paid too much for it.
Organizations are like caffeinated dupes unknowingly jogging backward; you only hear of the few who reach their destination.
There are three types of large corporations: those about to go bankrupt,those that are bankrupt and hide it, those that are bankrupt and don’t know it.
The best test of whether someone is extremely stupid (or extremely wise) is whether financial and political news makes sense to him.
The left holds that because markets are stupid models should be smart; the right believes that because models are stupid markets should be smart. Alas, it never hit both sides that both markets and models are very stupid.
When positive, show net; when negative, show gross.
Economics is like a dead star that still seems to produce light; but you know it is dead.
A trader listened to the firm’s “chief” economist’s predictions about gold, then lost a bundle. The trader was asked to leave the firm. He then angrily asked the boss who was firing him, “Why do you fire me alone, not the economist? He too is responsible for the loss.” The boss: “You idiot, we are not firing you for losing money—we are firing you for listening to the economist.”
Suckers think that you cure greed with money, addiction with substances, expert problems with experts, banking with bankers, economics with economists, and debt crises with debt spending.
You can be certain that the head of a corporation has a lot to worry about when he announces publicly that “there is nothing to worry about".
Economics is about making simple things more complicated, mathematics about making complicated things simpler.
The stock market, in brief: participants are calmly waiting in line to be slaughtered while thinking it is for a Broadway show.
If something (say, a stock price) looks slightly out of line, it is out of line. If it looks way out of line, you are wrong in your method of evaluation.
The main difference between government bailouts and smoking is that in some rare cases the statement “this is my last cigarette” holds true.
It is easier to macrobullshit than to microbullshit.
What makes us fragile is that institutions cannot have the same virtues (honor, truthfulness, courage, loyalty, tenacity) as individuals.
The worst damage has been caused by competent people trying to do good; the best improvements have been brought by incompetent ones not trying to do good.
Saying someone is good at making profits but not good at managing risk is like saying someone is a great surgeon except for cases when the patients die.
The difference between banks and the Mafia: banks have better legal regulatory expertise, but the Mafia understands public opinion.
It is much easier to scam people for billions than for just millions.
Being an entrepreneur is an existential not just a financial thing.
At a panel in Moscow, I watched an economist who got the “Nobel” for writings no one reads, theories no one uses, and lectures no one understands.
Anyone who likes meetings should be banned from attending meetings.
One of the failures of “scientific approximation” in the nonlinear domain comes from the inconvenient fact that the average of expectations is different from the expectation of averages.
An economist is a mixture of 1) a businessman without common sense, 2) a physicist without brains, and 3) a speculator without balls.
Journalists as reverse aphorists: my statement “you need skills to get a BMW, skills plus luck to become a Warren Buffett” was summarized as “Taleb says Buffett has no skills.”
The curious mind embraces science; the gifted and sensitive, the arts; the practical, business; the leftover becomes an economist.
Stiglitz understands everything about economics except for tail risks, which is like knowing everything about flight safety except for crashes.
Public companies, like human cells, are programmed for apoptosis, suicide through debt and hidden risks. Bailouts invest the process with a historical dimension.
Those with brains and no balls become mathematicians, those with balls and no brains join the Mafia, those with no balls and no brains become economists.
In poor countries, officials receive explicit bribes; in D.C. they get the sophisticated implicit, unspoken promise to work for large corporations.
Fate is at its cruelest when a banker ends up in poverty.
Never take investment advice from someone who has to work for a living.
We should make students recompute their GPAs by counting their grades in finance and economics backward.
The agency problem drives every company, thanks to the buildup of hidden risks, to maximal fragility.
Money corrupts those who talk (and write) about it more than those who earn it.
In politics we face the choice between warmongering, nation-state-loving, big-business agents on one hand; and risk-blind, top-down, epistemic arrogant big servants of large employers on the other. But we have a choice.
To have a great day: 1) Smile at a stranger, 2) surprise someone by saying something unexpectedly nice, 3) give some genuine attention to an elderly person, 4) invite someone who doesn’t have many friends for coffee, 5) humiliate an economist, publicly, or create deep anxiety inside a Harvard professor.
Bring the good news in trickles, the bad news in lumps.
Never ask your client for advice.
