People don't like it when you ask them for help; they also feel left out when you don't ask them for help.
The best revenge on a liar is to convince him that you believe what he said.
When we want to do something while unconsciously certain to fail, we seek advice so we can blame someone else for the failure.
France took Algeria hoping for a country to eat cassoulet, and instead France is now eating couscous.
It is harder to say no when you really mean it than when you don't.
Never say no twice if you mean it.
We tend to define rudeness less by the words used (what is said) than by the status of the recipient (to whom it is addressed).
Your reputation is harmed the most by what you say to defend it.
The only objective definition of aging is when a person starts to talk about aging.
They will envy you for your success, for your wealth, for your intelligence, for your looks, for your status—but rarely for your wisdom.
Most of what they call humility is successfully disguised arrogance.
Much of the difference between what is work and what is leisure is branding.
If you want people to read a book, tell them it is overrated.
You never win an argument until they attack your person.
The modern hypocrite gives the designation "respect" to what is nothing but fear of the powerful.
Nothing is more permanent than "temporary" arrangements, deficits, truces, and relationships; and nothing is more temporary than "permanent" ones.
The first one who uses "but" has lost the argument.
The most painful moments are not those we spend with uninteresting people; rather, they are those spent with uninteresting people trying hard to be interesting.
Hatred is love with a typo somewhere in the computer code, correctable but very hard to find.
Most mistakes get worse when you try to correct them.
I wonder whether a bitter enemy would be jealous if he discovered that I hated someone else.
The main reason to go to school is to learn how not to think like a professor
The characteristic feature of the loser is to bemoan, in general terms, mankind's flaws, biases, contradictions, and irrationality—without exploiting them for fun and profit.
The test of whether you really liked a book is if you reread it (and how many times); the test of whether you really liked someone's company is if you are ready to meet him again and again—the rest is spin, or that variety of sentiment now called self-esteem.
If someone is making an effort to ignore you, he is not ignoring you.
We ask "why is he rich (or poor)?" not "why isn't he richer (or poorer)?"; "why is the crisis so deep?" not "why isn't it deeper?"
One of life's machinations is to make some people both rich and unhappy, that is, jointly fragile and deprived of hope.
Hatred is much harder to fake than love. You hear of fake love; never of fake hate.
Sometimes people ask you a question with their eyes begging you to not tell them the truth.
The opposite of manliness isn't cowardice; it's technology.
Usually, what we call a "good listener" is someone with skillfully polished indifference.
In your prayers substitute "Protect us from evil" with "Protect us from those who improve things for a salary."
It is the appearance of inconsistency, and not its absence, that makes people attractive.
You remember emails you sent that were not answered better than emails that you did not answer.
Never read a book review written by an author whose books you wouldn't read.
People reserve standard compliments for those who do not threaten their pride; the others they often praise by calling "arrogant."
The dream of having computers behave like humans is coming true, with the transformation, in a single generation, of humans into computers.
Since Cato the Elder, a certain type of maturity has shown up when one starts blaming the new generation for "shallowness" and praising the previous one for its "values."
Almost all those caught making a logical fallacy interpret it as a "disagreement."
It is as difficult to avoid bugging others with advice on how to exercise and other health matters as it is to stick to an exercise schedule.
By praising someone for his lack of defects you are also implying his lack of virtues.
If powerful assholes don't find you "arrogant," it means you are doing something wrong.
When she shouts that what you did was unforgivable, she has already started to forgive you.
Being unimaginative is only a problem when you are easily bored.
People feel deep anxiety finding out that someone they thought was stupid is actually more intelligent than they are.
We call narcissistic those individuals who behave as if they were the central residents of the world; those who do exactly the same in a set of two we call lovers or, better, "blessed by love."
Friendship that ends was never one; there was at least one sucker in it.
Most people fear being without audiovisual stimulation because they are too repetitive when they think and imagine things on their own.
When someone writes "I dislike you but I agree with you," I read "I dislike you because I agree with you."
Unrequited hate is vastly more diminishing for the self than unrequited love. You can't react by reciprocating.
A government stating, "We will not stand idle in front of atrocities committed by [foreign dictator XYZ]" is typically trying to mitigate the guilt for standing idle in front of more atrocities committed by said XYZ.
For the compassionate, sorrow is more easily displaced by another sorrow than by joy.
Wisdom in the young is as unattractive as frivolity in the elderly.
Some people are only funny when they try to be serious.
It is difficult to stop the impulse to reveal secrets in conversation, as if information had the desire to live and the power to multiply.
It is a very powerful manipulation to let others win the small battles.
If you want strangers to help you, smile. For those close to you, cry.
