Success is becoming in middle adulthood what you dreamed to be in late childhood. The rest comes from loss of control.
The opposite of success isn't failure; it is name-dropping.
Modernity needs to understand that being rich and becoming rich are not mathematically, personally, socially, and ethically the same thing.
If you socialize with someone with a smaller bank account than yours, you are obligated to converse as if you had exactly the same means, eat in the places where he eats, at no point in time show the pictures of your vacation in Provence or anything that hints at the differential in means.
You don't become completely free by just avoiding to be a slave; you also need to avoid becoming a master.
Fortune punishes the greedy by making him poor and the very greedy by making him rich.
Quite revealing of human preferences that more suicides come from shame or loss of financial and social status than medical diagnoses.
Business wars are typically lost by both parties; academic wars are won by both sides.
Studying the work and intellectual habits of a "genius" to learn from him is like studying the garb of a chef to emulate his cooking.
"Wealthy" is meaningless and has no robust absolute measure; use instead the subtractive measure "unwealth," that is, the difference, at any point in time, between what you have and what you would like to have.
You will never know for sure if someone is an asshole until he becomes rich.
Older people are most beautiful when they have what is lacking in the young: poise, erudition, wisdom, phronesis, and this post-heroic absence of agitation.
I went to a happiness conference; researchers looked very unhappy.
What fools call "wasting time" is most often the best investment.
Decline starts with the replacement of dreams with memories and ends with the replacement of memories with other memories.
There is no clearer sign of failure than a middle-aged man boasting of his performance in college.
You want to avoid being disliked without being envied or admired.
Read nothing from the past one hundred years; eat no fruits from the past one thousand years; drink nothing from the past four thousand years (just wine and water); but talk to no ordinary man over forty. A man without a heroic bent starts dying at the age of thirty.
Some pursuits are much duller from the inside. Even piracy, they say
Karl Marx, a visionary, figured out that you can control a slave much better by convincing him he is an employee.
I wonder how many people would seek excessive wealth if it did not carry a measure of status with it.
Catholic countries had more serial monogamy than today, but without the need for divorce—life expectancy was short; marriage duration was much, much shorter.
To figure out how well you will do ten years from now relative to someone else, count your enemies, count his, and square the ratio.
The fastest way to become rich is to socialize with the poor; the fastest way to become poor is to socialize with the rich.
The alpha person at a gathering of "high status" persons is often, detectably, the waiter.
You will be civilized on the day you can spend a long period doing nothing, learning nothing, and improving nothing, without feeling the slightest amount of guilt
Someone who says "I am busy" is either declaring incompetence (and lack of control of his life) or trying to get rid of you.
Success in all endeavors requires the absence of specific qualities. 1) To succeed in crime requires absence of empathy, 2) To succeed in banking you need absence of shame at hiding risks, 3) To succeed in school requires absence of common sense, 4) To succeed in economics requires absence of understanding of probability, risk, second-order effects, or about anything, 5) To succeed in journalism requires an inability to think about matters that have even an infinitesimally small chance of being relevant next January, 6) But to succeed in life requires a total inability to do anything that makes you uncomfortable when you look at yourself in the mirror.
The difference between slaves in Roman and Ottoman days and today's employees is that slaves did not need to flatter their boss.
The natural benefit of cellphones, laptops, and other indispensable modern items is the joy one gets finding the object after losing it. Lose your wallet full of credit cards and you will have a chance to have a great day.
You are rich if and only if money you refuse tastes better than money you accept.
Do not socialize with people much richer than you; but if you do, do it in your own territory (restaurants you can afford, wine, etc.).
For most, success is the harmful passage from the camp of the hating to the camp of the hated.
To see if you like where you are, without the chains of dependence, check if you are as happy returning as you were leaving.
You can tell how poor someone feels by the number of times he references "money" in his conversation.
The difference between love and happiness is that those who talk about love tend to be in love, but those who talk about happiness tend to be not happy.
Modernity: we created youth without heroism, age without wisdom, and life without grandeur.
You can tell how uninteresting a person is by asking him whom he finds interesting.
The Web is an unhealthy place for someone hungry for attention.
I wonder if anyone ever measured the time it takes, at a party, before a mildly successful stranger who went to Harvard makes others aware of it.
People focus on role models; it is more effective to find antimodels—people you don't want to resemble when you grow up.
It is a good practice to always apologize, except when you have done something wrong.
Preoccupation with efficacy is the main obstacle to a poetic, noble, elegant, robust, and heroic life.
Some, like most bankers, are so unfit for success that they look like dwarves dressed in giants' clothes.
Don't complain too loud about wrongs done you; you may give ideas to your less imaginative enemies.
Most feed their obsessions by trying to get rid of them.
It is as difficult to change someone's opinions as it is to change his tastes.
What we commonly call "success" (rewards, status, recognition, some new metric) is a consolation prize for those who are both unhappy and not good at what they do.
I have the fondest memories of time spent in places called ugly, the most boring ones of places called scenic.
It is good to not feel envy; but better to neither envy nor be envied.
Fitness is certainly the sign of strength, but outside of natural stimuli the drive to acquire fitness can signal some deep incurable weakness.
Charm is the ability to insult people without offending them; nerdiness the reverse.
Those who do not think that employment is systemic slavery are either blind or employed.
They are born, then put in a box; they go home to live in a box; they study by ticking boxes; they go to what is called "work" in a box, where they sit in their cubicle box; they drive to the grocery store in a box to buy food in a box; they go to the gym in a box to sit in a box; they talk about thinking "outside the box"; and when they die they are put in a box. All boxes, Euclidian, geometrically smooth boxes.
Never hire an A student unless it is to take exams.
Another definition of modernity: conversations can be more and more completely reconstructed with clips from other conversations taking place at the same time on the planet.
The twentieth century was the bankruptcy of the social utopia; the twentyfirst will be that of the technological one.
In the days of Suetonius, 60 percent of prominent educators (grammarians) were slaves. Today the ratio is 97.1 percent, and growing.
Efforts at building social, political, and medical utopias have caused nightmares; many cures and techniques came from martial efforts.
The Web's "connectedness" creates a peculiar form of informational and pseudosocial promiscuity, which makes one feel clean after Web rationing.
In most debates, people seem to be trying to convince one another; but all they can hope for is new arguments to convince themselves.
Did you notice that collecting art is to hobby-painting as watching pornography is to doing the real thing? Only difference is status.
